---
layout: post
title: "React.js II: Building Scalable Applications"
categories: React.js ReactDOM
published: true
---

- Presentational Component: Functional Component with no state.

# #Routing in SPA
- Browser provide history API.
    - Since React is a SPA, Routing libraries use this API to hijack and mimic URLs. 
- React-Router-Dom
    - When you don't use `exact` every component than the route URl is part will show up in the order you have declared them.
    - When you use `Switch`, the first route it finds that matches with the path is rendered and nothing else after.

# #React-Router-DOM
- Any component that gets renders with the Routes get three arguments:
    - history
    - location
        - Tells us where we are currently.
        - objects:
            - pathname: where we are currently with full URL.
    - match:
        - This allows component to build out nested route structure.
        - objects:
            - url: URL of the component that got rendered upto, from the route that got matched.
                - `<Link to={`${props.match.url}/13`}>To Topic 13</Link>`
                - As long as we have appropriate route for TopicDetails.
            - path: The Path that was looked to be matched for the component.
            - isExact: Is only true is the entire URL matches the pattern of the path for the component loaded.
            - params: Is an Object of URL parameters.
                - `/topics/:topicId`

- *There are two ways to navigate between the pages.*
    - *Link Component*
        - `<Link to='/topics'>Topics</Link>`
    - Using `history` prop:
        - Functionally calling whenever we want.
        - `<button onClick={() => props.history.push('/topics')}>Topics</button>`

- We only get access to Routes props from the first Component that gets passed into from Route, not the children. So;
    - **prop-drilling:** You can either pass the props down to the children one by one to get to the component that need them.
    - **withRouter** from react-router-dom:
        - an HOC function that takes a component and returns a component with access to Route props.

# #Data Flow
- How much data you're taking from selector.
- Where should that data live on component.
- Keep a component dependent on min amount of state is a good practice.