---
layout: post
title: "React.js"
categories: React.js
published: false
---

Notes on React.js.

# #Key Concepts
### 1. Don't touch the DOM, I will do it: Declarative vs Imperative.
- DOM is the tree respresentation of the page.
- Imperative Paradign DOM is directly manipulated on user generated events using JS.
    - It become difficult to map the user events and DOM use cases.
    - It takes a long time to DOM changes to happen:
        1. Browser has to repaint the DOM.
        1. Browser has to reflow, if the need be.
- In Declarative approach, the blueprint of the page is defined once, i.e., state: object on which the DOM depends. React takes care of DOM modification whenever the object is modified.

### 2. Building websites like lego blocks: Reusable components.
- Exportable JavaScript functions/class that returns JSX.

### 3. Unidirectional Data Flow:
- React library takes in the application state and the components, and create a VirtualDOM.
    - A JavaScript object that describes the DOM.
    - This gives react the blueprint of how it should update the actual DOM.
- And everytime on state change, React then update the DOM using the VirtualDOM. Thus, unidirectional.
- Data can never move up:
    - The state change of a child component won't effect parent component, only it's own childrens.

### 4. UI, The rest is up to you.
- React is not a framework like AngularJS.
- React only work with the View. A UI library.

## #Architctering a React App
- Decide on Components.
- Decide the Sttae and where it lives.
- What changes when state changes.

# #React Basics
6th