---
layout: post
title: "Search Engine Optimization (SEO)"
categories: SEO
published: true
---

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Guide.

## #Glosary
- Index: 
    - A page is indexed by Google if it has been visited by the Google crawler ("Googlebot"), analyzed for content and meaning, and stored in the Google index.
        - Indexed pages can be shown in Google Search results (if they follow Google's webmaster guidelines).
    - Google stores all web pages that it knows about in its index.
        - The index entry for each page describes the content and location (URL) of that page.
    - To index is when Google fetches a page, reads it, and adds it to the index: Google indexed several pages on my site today.
- Crawl: 
    - The process of looking for new or updated web pages. 
    - Google discovers URLs by following links, by reading sitemaps, and by many other means. 
    - Google crawls the web, looking for new pages, then indexes them (when appropriate).

## #Are you on Google?
- Determine whether your site is in Google's index:
    - Do a site: search for your site's home URL.
- If your site isn't in Google, it's frequently for one of the following reasons:
    - The site isn't well connected from other sites on the web.
    - You've just launched a new site and Google hasn't had time to crawl it yet.
    - The design of the site makes it difficult for Google to crawl its content effectively.
    - Google received an error when trying to crawl your site.
    - Your policy blocks Google from crawling the site.

## #How do I get my site on Google?
- Vast majority of sites listed on Google results aren't manually submitted for inclusion, but found and added automatically when we crawl the web.
- Google Search Console provides tools to help you submit your content to Google and monitor how you're doing in Google Search.

## #an SEO expert?
- Review of your site content or structure.
- Technical advice on website development: for example, hosting, redirects, error pages, use of JavaScript.
- Content development.
- Management of online business development campaigns.
- Keyword research.
- SEO training.
- Expertise in specific markets and geographies.

## #Help Google find your content
- Get your site on Google is to be sure that Google can find it.
    - Submit a sitemap.
    - A sitemap is a file on your site that tells search engines about new or changed pages on your site.

## #Tell Google which pages shouldn't be crawled
- For non-sensitive information, block unwanted crawling by using robots.txt
    - It is placed in the root directory of your site.
    - Note that if your site uses subdomains and you wish to have certain pages not crawled on a particular subdomain, you'll have to create a separate robots.txt file for that subdomain.
- Use the noindex tag if you just want the page not to appear in Google, but don't mind if any user with a link can reach the page.
    - For real security, though, you should use proper authorization methods, like requiring a user password, or taking the page off your site entirely.

## #Help Google (and users) understand your content
- Let Google see your page the same way a user does:
    - Use the URL Inspection tool:
        -  It will allow you to see exactly how Googlebot sees and renders your content, and it will help you identify and fix a number of indexing issues on your site.
- Create unique, accurate page titles:
    - A `<title>` tag tells both users and search engines what the topic of a particular page is. 
    -  You should create a unique title for each page on your site.
- Create good titles and snippets in search results:
    - If your document appears in a search results page, the contents of the title tag may appear in the first line of the results.
    - A good title accurately describe the page's content.
        - Avoid, choosing a title that has no relation to the content on the page.
    - Create unique titles for each page.
        - Avoid, using a single title across all of your site's pages or a large group of pages.
    - Use brief, but descriptive titles.
        - Avoid, using extremely lengthy titles that are unhelpful to users.
- Use the "description" meta tag:
    - A page's description meta tag gives Google and other search engines a summary of what the page is about.
    - Description meta tags are important because Google might use them as snippets for your pages.
    - Avoid:
        - Writing a description meta tag that has no relation to the content on the page.
        - Writing a description meta tag that has no relation to the content on the page.
        - Filling the description with only keywords.
        - Copying and pasting the entire content of the document into the description meta tag.
    - Use unique descriptions for each page.
        - Avoid, using a single description meta tag across all of your site's pages or a large group of pages.
- Use heading tags to emphasize important text:
    - Avoid, using heading tags where other tags like `<em>` and `<strong>` may be more appropriate.
    - Use heading tags where it makes sense. Too many heading tags on a page can make it hard for users to scan the content and determine where one topic ends and another begins.
    - Avoid, very long headings.
    - Avoid, using heading tags only for styling text and not presenting structure.
- Add structured data markup:
    - Structured data is code that you can add to your sites' pages to describe your content to search engines, so they can better understand what's on your pages.
        - Search engines can use this understanding to display your content in useful (and eye-catching!) ways in search results.
    - Use structured data with any of the supported notations markup to describe your content.
        - Add the markup to the HTML code to your pages.
        - Use tools like `Data Highlighter` and `Markup Helper`.
    - Once you've marked up your content, you can use the `Google Rich Results test` to make sure that there are no mistakes in the implementation.
        - Avoid, using invalid markup.
        - Avoid, changing the source code of your site when you are unsure about implementing markup.
    - Keep track of how your marked up pages are doing.
        - Avoid, adding markup data which is not visible to users.
        - Avoid, creating fake reviews or adding irrelevant markups.
    - Manage your appearance in Google Search results:
        - Correct structured data on your pages also makes your page eligible for many special features in Search results, including review stars, fancy decorated results, and more. 
        - Click [here.](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/search-gallery)

## #Organize your site hierarchy
- Understand how search engines use URLs
    - Search engines need a unique URL per piece of content to be able to crawl and index that content, and to refer users to it.
    - Different content - for example, different products in a shop - as well as modified content - for example, translations or regional variations - need to use separate URLs in order to be shown in search appropriately.
    - URLs are generally split into multiple distinct sections:
        - `protocol://hostname/path/filename?querystring#fragment`
    - Google recommends that all websites use https:// when possible.
        - When adding your website to Search Console, we recommend adding both http:// and https:// versions, as well as the "www" and "non-www" versions.
    - For the path and filename, a trailing slash would be seen as a different URL (signaling either a file or a directory), for example, "https://example.com/fish" is not the same as "https://example.com/fish/".
- Navigation is important for search engines:
    -  Although Google's search results are provided at a page level, Google also likes to have a sense of what role a page plays in the bigger picture of the site.
- Plan your navigation based on your homepage:
    - Unless your site has only a handful of pages, you should think about how visitors will go from a general page (your root page) to a page containing more specific content. 
        - Do you have enough pages around a specific topic area that it would make sense to create a page describing these related pages?
        - Do you have hundreds of different products that need to be classified under multiple category and subcategory pages?
- Using ‘breadcrumb lists':
    - A breadcrumb is a row of internal links at the top or bottom of the page that allows visitors to quickly navigate back to a previous section or the root page.
- Create a simple navigational page for users:
    - A navigational page is a simple page on your site that displays the structure of your website, and usually consists of a hierarchical listing of the pages on your site.
        - While search engines will also visit this page, getting good crawl coverage of the pages on your site, it's mainly aimed at human visitors.
    - Create a naturally flowing hierarchy.
        - Add navigation pages when it makes sense and effectively work these into your internal link structure.
        - Make sure all of the pages on your site are reachable through links, and that they don't require an internal "search" functionality to be found.
        - Avoid, creating complex webs of navigation links, for example, linking every page on your site to every other page.
    - Controlling most of the navigation from page to page on your site through text links makes it easier for search engines to crawl and understand your site.
        - When using JavaScript to create a page, use "a" elements with URLs as "href" attribute values, and generate all menu items on page-load, instead of waiting for a user interaction.
        - Avoid, having a navigation based entirely on images, or animations.
    - Create a navigational page for users, a sitemap for search engines.
        - Avoid, letting your navigational page become out of date with broken links.
        - Avoid, creating a navigational page that simply lists pages without organizing them, for example by subject.
    - Show useful 404 pages:
        - Avoid, allowing your 404 pages to be indexed in search engines (make sure that your web server is configured to give a 404 HTTP status code or - in the case of JavaScript-based sites - include a noindex robots meta-tag when non-existent pages are requested).
        - Avoid, blocking 404 pages from being crawled through the robots.txt file.
        - Avoid, providing only a vague message like "Not found", "404", or no 404 page at all.
        - Avoid, using a design for your 404 pages that isn't consistent with the rest of your site.
- Simple URLs convey content information:
    - Creating descriptive categories and filenames for the documents on your website not only helps you keep your site better organized, it can create easier, "friendlier" URLs for those that want to link to your content.
- URLs are displayed in search results:
    - Use words in URLs.
        - Avoid, using lengthy URLs with unnecessary parameters and session IDs.
        - Avoid, choosing generic page names like "page1.html".
        - Avoid, using excessive keywords like "baseball-cards-baseball-cards-baseballcards.htm".
    - Create a simple directory structure.
        - Avoid:
            - Having deep nesting of subdirectories like ".../dir1/dir2/dir3/dir4/dir5/dir6/page.html".
            - Using directory names that have no relation to the content in them.
            - Having pages from subdomains and the root directory access the same content, for example, "domain.com/page.html" and "sub.domain.com/page.html".

## #Optimize your content
- Make your site interesting and useful:
    - Write easy-to-read text.
        - Avoid, embedding text in images and videos for textual content: users may want to copy and paste the text and search engines can't read it.
    - Organize your topics clearly.
    - Create fresh, unique content.
    - Optimize content for your users, not search engines
- Act in a way that cultivates user trust.
- Make expertise and authoritativeness clear.
    - Expertise and authoritativeness of a site increases its quality. Be sure that content on your site is created or edited by people with expertise in the topic.
- Provide an appropriate amount of content for your subject.
- Avoid distracting advertisements.

## #Use links wisely
- The anchor text you use for a link should provide at least a basic idea of what the page linked to is about.
    - Avoid:
        - Writing generic anchor text like "page", "article", or "click here".
        - Using text that is off-topic or has no relation to the content of the page linked to.
        - Using the page's URL as the anchor text in most cases, although there are certainly legitimate uses of this, such as promoting or referencing a new website's address.
- Write concise text.
- Format links so they're easy to spot.
- Think about anchor text for internal links too.
- Be careful who you link to:
    - If you're interested in nofollowing all of the links on a page, you can add the tag `<meta name="robots" content="nofollow">` inside the `<head>` tag for the page.
- Combat comment spam with "nofollow":
    - Setting the value of the "rel" attribute of a link to "nofollow" will tell Google that certain links on your site shouldn't be followed or pass your page's reputation to the pages linked to. 
    - `<a href="http://www.example.com" rel="nofollow">Anchor text here</a>`
- Automatically add "nofollow" to comment columns and message boards.

## #Optimize your images
- Use the "alt" attribute:
    - Use brief but descriptive filenames and alt text.
        - Avoid, using generic filenames like "image1.jpg", "pic.gif", "1.jpg" when possible.
        - Avoid, extremely lengthy filenames.
    - Supply alt text when using images as links.
- Help search engines find your images:
    - An Image sitemap41 can provide Googlebot with more information about the images found on your site.
- Use standard image formats.

## #Make your site mobile-friendly
- Choose a mobile strategy:
    - There are multiple ways of making your website mobile ready and Google supports different implementation methods:
        - Responsive web design (Recommended)
        - Dynamic serving
        - Separate URLs
    - After you have created a mobile-ready site, you can use `Google's Mobile-friendly test`.
    - If your site serves lots of static content (like blog posts or product landing pages) across multiple pages, consider implementing it using `AMP` (Accelerated Mobile Pages).
        - It's a special flavor of HTML that ensures your site stays fast and user friendly, and can be further accelerated by various platforms, including Google Search.
- Configure mobile sites so that they can be indexed accurately:
    1. If you use Dynamic Serving or have a separate mobile site, signal to Google when a page is formatted for mobile (or has an equivalent page that's formatted for mobile). This helps Google accurately serve mobile searchers your content in search results.
    1. If you are using Responsive Web Design, use meta name="viewport" tag to tell the browser how to adjust the content. If you use Dynamic Serving, use the Vary HTTP header to signal your changes depending on the user-agent. If you are using separate URLs, signal the relationship between two URLs by `<link>` tag with rel="canonical" and rel="alternate" elements.
    1. Keep resources crawlable. Blocking page resources can give Google an incomplete picture of your website.
    1. Avoid common mistakes that frustrate mobile visitors, such as featuring unplayable videos (for example,, Flash video as the page's significant content).
    1. Mobile pages that provide a poor searcher experience can be demoted in rankings or displayed with a warning in mobile search results.
    1. Provide full functionality on all devices. Mobile users expect the same functionality - such as commenting and check-out - and content on mobile as well as on all other devices that your website supports.
        - In addition to textual content, make sure that all important images and videos are embedded and accessible on mobile devices. 
    1. Make sure that the structured data, images, videos, and metadata you have on your desktop site are also included on the mobile site.
    - If you use separate URLs for your mobile pages, make sure to test both the mobile and the desktop URLs, so you can confirm that the redirect is recognized and crawlable.

## #Promote your website
- A blog post on your own site letting your visitor base know that you added something new is a great way to get the word out about new content or services. Other webmasters who follow your site or RSS feed could pick the story up as well.
- If you run a local business, adding its information to `Google My Business` will help you reach customers on Google Maps and web search.

## #Analyze your search performance and user behavior
- Analyzing your search performance:
    - Major search engines, including Google, provide free tools for webmasters to analyze their performance in their search engine. 
        - Search Console provides two important categories of information: 
            - Can Google find my content? 
            - How am I performing in Google Search results?
    - Role of Webmaster:
        - See which parts of a site Googlebot had problems crawling.
        - Test and submit sitemaps.
        - Analyze or generate robots.txt files.
        - Remove URLs already crawled by Googlebot.
        - Specify your preferred domain.
        - Identify issues with title and description meta tags.
        - Understand the top searches used to reach a site.
        - Get a glimpse at how Googlebot sees pages.
        - Receive notifications of quality guidelines violations and request a site reconsideration.
- Analyzing user behavior on your site:
    - Web analytics programs like Google Analytics are a valuable source of insight for this.
        - Get insight into how users reach and behave on your site.
        - Discover the most popular content on your site.
        - Measure the impact of optimizations you make to your site, for example, did changing those title and description meta tags improve traffic from search engines?